---
layout: post
title:  "smoking"
date:   2024-10-09 2:44 +0
categories: misc
---

I believe part of the idea is that when you work on being present and observe what you're doing and your thoughts at each moment you begin to notice that your emotions aren't so straightforward. When entertaining the addiction ask yourself what are you doing? What are you feeling? Is it an urge to do what you are doing or is there a part of you that feels like it wants to pull away from the act? Or is there a part of you that is completely silent and still? Even in the greatest grief there are points of stillness and there are parts of your brain that are reminding you to grieve instead of that actually being your natural instinct. It's in this awareness of your stillness that you realize that your craving at some level isn't something that you need or even want at this time.

As humans we have preferences but we need to learn to not be so attached to these preferences through deeper awareness. Addiction is usually Craving -> Seeking Craving -> Partaking in Addiction with traditional addiction prevention intervening at the second or third stage. With utmost awareness while partaking in your addiction overtime you realize at stage one that you aren't so fond or attached to this craving as you thought. The rest of the chain fades away then of course naturally. Imagine an alcohol addict being able to drink again if the occasion arose and not feeling scared that they will spiral. I know, even typing that feels like a scary suggestion. But that's where true freedom lives because when you're resisting, the craving is still there to apply the pressure or else what are you resisting? Even resisting resistance though is another trick. Do what you think you must and be aware until your awareness brings you freedom from the thoughts telling you what you must do.

I write this as someone with addictions and challenges with it as well. Remember even when you cave to the cravings to not be hard on yourself it's all part of the dance. Isn't there something almost humorous in telling ourselves we won't do something then doing it again?